Blog post TPI Jupyter (#3557)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-06-01-Jupyter-in-cloud-with-TPI.md

[spot instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-spot-instances.html)
instead of on-demand ones. These instances use spare capacity from the cloud
provider. While it may take longer for spot instances to become available, their
cost is always lower than on-demand instances.

At the time of writing, the on-demand hourly rate for the specified type of
instance is $0.526. On the other hand, spot instances are only $0.15 per hour.
With little to no effort, TPI allows us to reduce our cloud costs by 70%!

<admon type="tip">

We could also set an upper limit to the hourly price we are willing to pay
(e.g., `spot = 0.12`), and TPI would hold off on provisioning until instances
are available at that price. Disabling spot pricing (`spot = -1`) would make TPI
provision on-demand instances.

</admon>

After specifying the details for the hardware, we configure a few environment
variables for the instance. We also set the local working directory for the
script and the directory to download files from (relative to the working
directory) upon terminating the instance. In this case, both are the `shared`
directory.

```bash

> #!/bin/bash

Author: @casperdcl Should we also update the example repo to reflect this change?

---
title: Jupyter Notebooks in any cloud with TPI
date: 2022-06-01
description: >
  Use TPI to quickly and cheaply provision a cloud-hosted Jupyter server to run
  your notebooks on.
descriptionLong: >
  We can use TPI to quickly and cheaply provision cloud instances. This guide
  will explore how to use TPI to launch a Jupyter server on an Amazon Web
  Services EC2 instance at the lowest possible cost. With minor modifications,
  you can also launch instances on Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, or

>   Kubernetes.

Reviewer: For the description, I think it would be good to include @casperdcl 's "bring your own cloud" catchphrase.  So after the first sentence, maybe:
This bring-your-own-cloud approach can launch instances on Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, or Kubernetes with minor modifications.

  difficult and sometimes impossible to use infrastructure components from
  different vendors in conjunction with each other.
- **Hardware limitations:** they may still put a limit on the hardware available
  to you. Colab, for example, is capped at 25GB of RAM and caps uptime at 12
  hours.

Iterative provides an alternative to these services in the form of
[TPI (Terraform Provider Iterative)](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative).
This [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) plugin lets you extend the
capabilities of your laptop by connecting it to endless cloud resources. We can
use TPI to launch a wide variety of tasks without needing to be a cloud expert.
Launching Jupyter workspaces is one such an application.

Here are four benefits to TPI that might pique your interest:

- **Free and open:** TPI is entirely open source and free to use.
- **Lower cloud costs:** TPI automatically cleans up unused instances. It also
  allows you to use spot instances, reducing your per-hour costs.
- **Modular:** TPI can be used with a variety of cloud vendors, meaning you can
  use it regardless of what the rest of your stack looks like.

> - **Developer-first experience:** {{is this really a benefit for target audience

Reviewer: Ya. Good point.  This is a go-to for the ML engineer set, but maybe not as much for this audience.  

It could be replaced by some/all of the benefits Casper outlined in his comments before:

>No CI/CD required: You don’t need CI/CD to work in the cloud, you can get started right away
>Simple one file setup: install terraform, craft your main.tf >and you are gewd to go
>Extend your laptop hardware with the cloud: "plug your cloud into your laptop" for easy access to those endless resources
>Portable: Share your main.tf and anyone can run the experiment. Also you if you have data/storage in the cloud already, you can use an instance/compute with the same cloud provider in the same cloud region to make access/egress faster & more secure (important for bug data & enterprise)
>builtin spot recovery: We handle instance rebooting and syncing data so you can easily take full advantage of spot instances

Author: Did another iteration on this with the target audience in mind. The upsides now mirror the downsides of Colab etc. as listed above. 😄

  launch instances on Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, or Kubernetes.
picture: 2022-06-01/tpi-jupyter-cover.jpeg
author: rob_dewit
# commentsUrl: TODO
tags:
  - TPI
  - Jupyter Notebook
  - Cloud
  - AWS
---

<admon type="info">

I based this blog post on
[@casperdcl's guide published over on Hackernoon](https://hackernoon.com/using-jupytertensorboard-in-any-cloud-with-one-command).

</admon>

Jupyter Notebook is one of —if not the— most-used tools in data science. It
provides an intuitive and feature-packed developer experience and, for many
people, is an indispensable tool when working on machine learning projects.

The most straightforward use is on a local machine. We switch to a virtual
environment, type `jupyter notebook` in our terminal, and head over to
http://localhost:8888. We're good to go and ready to start prototyping!

This usage has one major downside, however: we're limited by the specs of our
local machine. While my laptop won't struggle too much training a classifier for
the IRIS dataset, it might become a limiting factor when working on an
alternative to GPT-3. And probably a little while before a project of that
scope.

> The apparent solution to bypassing the limitations of our local machine is to

Author: [Looked it up](https://www.google.com/search?q=apparent), I think I'm using the first definition of the word and you the second:

```
1. clearly visible or understood; obvious.
2. seeming real or true, but not necessarily so.
```

Will tweak slightly.

move our notebooks to the cloud. When running a notebook on AWS or Azure, we can
provision as beefy an instance as needed for our project. However, the downside
to cloud-hosted notebooks is that they're more challenging to get up and
running. And any time spent setting up our development environment is time we
can't spend on our actual ML project.

"Now wait a minute," you might say, "hasn't this problem long been solved by
SaaS solutions like Google Colab and Amazon SageMaker Studio?"

To which I'd reply: "To an extent: yes. But while they certainly have their
merits, these solutions often have their own limitations which can become
problematic."

Here are three of the limitations imposed by SaaS solutions such as Colab and
SageMaker:

- **Cost:** they are expensive to use. You're not only paying for the hardware
  but also for using the platform.
- **Walled garden:** they tend to be baked into the vendor's ecosystem. It's
  difficult and sometimes impossible to use infrastructure components from

>   different vendors in conjunction with each other.

Reviewer: Have we done any other work to determine what other terminology around this concept is used in the industry.  And re: @casperdcl's Infrastructure components comment, it would be good to insert a "such as ____ and _____" to clarify this.

>   different vendors in conjunction with each other.

Author: Will insert a phrase with examples.

With regards to `walled garden`: I see the term come up quite often (didn't invent it myself, after all). It's difficult to assess how ubiquitous this is; we can't Google how many people don't know something.

I think that if people don't immediately understand it, they can derive its meaning from context. But we can change the phrase if you think it makes the message clearer.

This [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) plugin lets us quickly launch
Jupyter workspaces on any cloud provider without needing to be a cloud expert.

Here are four benefits to TPI that might pique your interest:

- **Free and open:** TPI is entirely open source and free to use
- **Lower cloud costs:** TPI automatically cleans up unused instances. It also
  allows you to use spot instances, reducing your per-hour costs
- **Modular:** TPI can be used with a variety of cloud vendors, meaning you can
  use it regardless of what the rest of your stack looks like
- **Developer-first experience:** {{is this really a benefit for target audience
  i.e. data scientists?}}

The guide below will explore how to launch a Jupyter server using TPI, allowing
you to run notebooks on cloud instances. While we will be using AWS in our
example, you can use Azure or GCP with minor modifications.

# Prerequisites

Before you get started, make sure to take care of the following:

1. [Download the Terraform CLI tool](https://www.terraform.io/downloads)
1. [Set up an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/)
1. [Install AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

> 1. [Configure your AWS authentication credentials with `aws configure`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)

Reviewer: @RCdeWit 👆 This wasn't corrected.  @casperdcl It's just the 4th one that's not required, correct?

> 1. [Configure your AWS authentication credentials with `aws configure`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)

Author: Correct, still working on this iteration.

1. [Get a free ngrok account for port forwarding](https://ngrok.com/)
1. [Set your ngrok access token as an environment variable with `export NGROK_TOKEN="..."`](https://www.twilio.com/blog/2017/01/how-to-set-environment-variables.html)
1. [Clone the example repository](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-jupyter)

> <admon type="warn">

Reviewer: @RCdeWit 👆 Include in the admonition

This guide will result in a Jupyter server running on provisioned AWS hardware.
While TPI helps you do this as cheaply as possible, there are still costs
involved. Make sure you
[understand AWS pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/) to avoid unwelcome
charges to your credit card.

</admon>

# Guide

Once we have cloned the repository and navigated to it in our terminal, we only
need to run two commands. First, we use `terraform init` to initialize our

> configuration files. After that, we simply run `terraform apply` to launch our

Reviewer: @RCdeWit 👆 to include

This file contains the specifications Terraform needs to provision our instance.
Let's take a look at what each part of this configuration does:

```
terraform {
  required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative" } }
}
provider "iterative" {}
```

This first part of the configuration simply tells Terraform that we will be
using TPI. We can consider it analogous to a package import in Python.

```
resource "iterative_task" "jupyter_server" {
  spot      = 0             # auto-priced low-cost spot instance
  timeout   = 24*60*60      # force shutdown after 24h
  disk_size = 125           # GB
  machine   = "m+t4"        # m/l/xl (CPU), +k80/t4/v100 (GPU)
  image     = "nvidia"      # or "ubuntu"

  # cloud-specific config
  cloud     = "aws"         # see `git checkout generic` branch for: gcp, az, k8s

  # blank means extract from local env vars
  environment = { NGROK_TOKEN = "", TF_CPP_MIN_LOG_LEVEL = "1", QUIET = "1", GITHUB_USER = "username" }
  storage {
    workdir = "shared"
    output  = "."
  }
```

The second part of the configuration is perhaps the most interesting. Here we
provide the specifications for the instance Terraform should provision for us.

> In this case, we would like a medium CPU and an NVIDIA T4 GPU, along with a

Reviewer: You go over the sizes in the next part, but the link to the NIVIDIA t4 specs would be a good idea.

125GB disk. Because machine types vary between cloud vendors,
[TPI does some translation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#machine-type)
from generic types (e.g., `s`/`m`/`l`/`xl`) to specific cloud machine types.
This allows us to generalize these configurations and quickly switch from AWS to
Azure, for example.

> Of particular interest here is the `spot = 0`, which tells TPI to provision spot

Reviewer 2: given the blog's tone & level of detail in explanations, it implies a beginner target audience. Should thus explain briefly what spot/preemptible means. Pros/cons, give references.

It's also the No. 1 USP of TPI (auto-recovery from spot instance interrupts).

instances instead of on-demand ones. At the time of writing, the on-demand
hourly rate for this type of instance is $0.526. On the other hand, spot
instances are only $0.15 per hour. With little to no effort, TPI allows us to
reduce our cloud costs by a factor of 3.5!

<admon type="tip">

We could also set an upper limit to the price we are willing to pay (e.g.,
`spot = 0.12`), and TPI would hold off on provisioning until instances are
available at that price. Disabling spot pricing (`spot = -1`) would let TPI
provision instances at on-demand prices.

</admon>

After specifying the details for the hardware, we configure a few environment
variables for the instance. We also set the local working directory for the

> script and the directory to to download files from upon terminating the instance
> (relative to the working directory). In this case, both are the `shared`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
script and the directory to download files from (relative to the working
directory) upon terminating the instance. In this case, both are the `shared`
```

directory.

```bash
script = <<-END

>     #!/bin/bash
>     set -euo pipefail
>     if test "$GITHUB_USER" != username; then
>       # SSH debugging
>       trap 'echo script error: waiting for debugging over SSH. Run \"terraform destroy\" to stop waiting; sleep inf' ERR
>       mkdir -p "$HOME/.ssh"
>       curl -fsSL "https://github.com/$GITHUB_USER.keys" >> "$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys"
>     fi
>     export CUDACXX=/usr/local/cuda/bin/nvcc
>     export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
>     sed -ri 's#^(APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade).*#\1 "0";#' /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20auto-upgrades
>     dpkg-reconfigure unattended-upgrades
>     # install dependencies
>     pip3 install $${QUIET:+-q} jupyterlab notebook matplotlib ipywidgets tensorflow==2.8.0 tensorboard tensorflow_datasets
>     (curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | bash -) >/dev/null
>     apt-get install -y $${QUIET:+-qq} nodejs
> 
>     # start tunnel
>     export JUPYTER_TOKEN="$(uuidgen)"
>     pushd "$(mktemp -d --suffix dependencies)"
>     npm i ngrok
>     npx ngrok authtoken "$NGROK_TOKEN"
>     (node <<TUNNEL
>     const fs = require('fs');
>     const ngrok = require('ngrok');
>     (async function() {
>       const jupyter = await ngrok.connect(8888);
>       const tensorboard = await ngrok.connect(6006);
>       const br = '\n*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*\n';
>       fs.writeFileSync("log.md", \`\$${br}URL: Jupyter Lab: \$${jupyter}/lab?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: Jupyter Notebook: \$${jupyter}/tree?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: TensorBoard: \$${tensorboard}\$${br}\`);
>     })();
>     TUNNEL
>     ) &
>     while test ! -f log.md; do sleep 1; done
>     cat log.md
>     popd # dependencies
> 
>     # start tensorboard in background
>     env -u JUPYTER_TOKEN -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN tensorboard --logdir . --host 0.0.0.0 --port 6006 &
> 
>     # start Jupyter server in foreground
>     env -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN jupyter lab --allow-root --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --port=8888 --port-retries=0
>   END

Reviewer 2: borked indentation. Subtract 2 spaces

```suggestion
#!/bin/bash
  set -euo pipefail
  if test "$GITHUB_USER" != username; then
    # SSH debugging
    trap 'echo script error: waiting for debugging over SSH. Run \"terraform destroy\" to stop waiting; sleep inf' ERR
    mkdir -p "$HOME/.ssh"
    curl -fsSL "https://github.com/$GITHUB_USER.keys" >> "$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys"
  fi
  export CUDACXX=/usr/local/cuda/bin/nvcc
  export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
  sed -ri 's#^(APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade).*#\1 "0";#' /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20auto-upgrades
  dpkg-reconfigure unattended-upgrades
  # install dependencies
  pip3 install $${QUIET:+-q} jupyterlab notebook matplotlib ipywidgets tensorflow==2.8.0 tensorboard tensorflow_datasets
  (curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | bash -) >/dev/null
  apt-get install -y $${QUIET:+-qq} nodejs

  # start tunnel
  export JUPYTER_TOKEN="$(uuidgen)"
  pushd "$(mktemp -d --suffix dependencies)"
  npm i ngrok
  npx ngrok authtoken "$NGROK_TOKEN"
  (node <<TUNNEL
  const fs = require('fs');
  const ngrok = require('ngrok');
  (async function() {
    const jupyter = await ngrok.connect(8888);
    const tensorboard = await ngrok.connect(6006);
    const br = '\n*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*\n';
    fs.writeFileSync("log.md", \`\$${br}URL: Jupyter Lab: \$${jupyter}/lab?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: Jupyter Notebook: \$${jupyter}/tree?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: TensorBoard: \$${tensorboard}\$${br}\`);
  })();
  TUNNEL
  ) &
  while test ! -f log.md; do sleep 1; done
  cat log.md
  popd # dependencies

  # start tensorboard in background
  env -u JUPYTER_TOKEN -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN tensorboard --logdir . --host 0.0.0.0 --port 6006 &

  # start Jupyter server in foreground
  env -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN jupyter lab --allow-root --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --port=8888 --port-retries=0
END
```

> }

Reviewer 2: no need to close a long-forgotten previous snippet?

```suggestion
```

```

> The second-to-last part of `main.tf` contains the script that will run once the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part of our `main.tf` is the script to run once the
```

instance has been provisioned. These are CLI commands as you would run them in
your local terminal. We won't discuss every individual line, but in broad
strokes, the script does the following:

> 1. Run a few configuration commands

Reviewer 2: would drop this

```suggestion
```

1. Install the dependencies we will be needing
1. Start an ngrok tunnel so that we can easily access the server through our
   browser
1. Launch the Jupyter server

<admon type="info">

This script also launches

> [Tensorboard](https://www.tensorflow.org/tensorboard/get_started) to run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TensorBoard](https://www.tensorflow.org/tensorboard/get_started) to run
```

alongside Jupyter. It's not the main focus of this blog post, but it might be
helpful!

> If you don't want Tensorboard running, simply remove or comment out
> [line 78 of `main.tf`](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-jupyter/blob/aws/main.tf#L78).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't want TensorBoard running or want to run some other web service instead,
simply remove or modify [the relevant line in `main.tf`](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-jupyter/blob/e5fcc8aff74b40e1398ec0904efd73a2c480ff88/main.tf#L78).
```

exact lineno may change in future updates. Best to pin.

</admon>

As you can see, the possibilities for the scripts we can run through TPI are
extensive. We could add commands to clone a Git repository, for example. Or we
could pull data in from a [DVC](https://dvc.org/) remote. This flexibility
allows us to tailor the instance TPI provisions precisely to our needs.

```bash
output "urls" {
  value = flatten(regexall("URL: (.+)", try(join("\n", iterative_task.jupyter_server.logs), "")))
}
```

> Lastly, we specify the outputs for our script. This is the value Terraform
> returns to be shown in our terminal after provisioning our instance. In this
> case, we are returning the URLs through which we can access the Jupyter server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, purely for convenience, we specify the outputs of our task. Instead
of reading through all the script's output on the terminal, we extract the
ngrok tunnel URLs and inject them into an output value. Terraform will print
these outputs whenever we `refresh`. In this case, we get URLs to access the
Jupyter server.
```

> # Next steps: rethink this approach

Reviewer 2: this misses the point of the blog I think. It's not about "is Jupyter a good idea" it's more about "bring-your-own-cloud is cheaper and more configurable than depending on a comprehensive package solution."

See overall comments.

1. [Set up an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/)
1. [Install AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
1. [Configure your AWS authentication credentials with `aws configure`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
1. [Get a free ngrok account for port forwarding](https://ngrok.com/)
1. [Set your ngrok access token as an environment variable with `export NGROK_TOKEN="..."`](https://www.twilio.com/blog/2017/01/how-to-set-environment-variables.html)
1. [Clone the example repository](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-jupyter)

<admon type="warn">

This guide will result in a Jupyter server running on provisioned AWS hardware.
While TPI helps you do this as cheaply as possible, there are still costs
involved. Make sure you
[understand AWS pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/) to avoid unwelcome
charges to your credit card.

</admon>

# Guide

Once we have cloned the repository and navigated to it in our terminal, we only
need to run two commands. First, we use `terraform init` to initialize our
configuration files. After that, we simply run `terraform apply` to launch our

> Jupyter server. That's all there as to it. TPI works its magic, and within a few

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jupyter server. That's all there is to it. TPI works its magic, and within a few
```

script and the directory to download files from (relative to the working
directory) upon terminating the instance. In this case, both are the `shared`
directory.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail
if test "$GITHUB_USER" != username; then
  # SSH debugging
  trap 'echo script error: waiting for debugging over SSH. Run \"terraform destroy\" to stop waiting; sleep inf' ERR
  mkdir -p "$HOME/.ssh"
  curl -fsSL "https://github.com/$GITHUB_USER.keys" >> "$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys"
fi
export CUDACXX=/usr/local/cuda/bin/nvcc
export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
sed -ri 's#^(APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade).*#\1 "0";#' /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20auto-upgrades
dpkg-reconfigure unattended-upgrades
# install dependencies
pip3 install $${QUIET:+-q} jupyterlab notebook matplotlib ipywidgets tensorflow==2.8.0 tensorboard tensorflow_datasets
(curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | bash -) >/dev/null
apt-get install -y $${QUIET:+-qq} nodejs

# start tunnel
export JUPYTER_TOKEN="$(uuidgen)"
pushd "$(mktemp -d --suffix dependencies)"
npm i ngrok
npx ngrok authtoken "$NGROK_TOKEN"
(node <<TUNNEL
const fs = require('fs');

> const ngrok = require('ngrok');

Reviewer: This whole code section is where I get pretty much completely lost. While there are some comments put in which is helpful, there are other parts that are not explained.  What is CUDACXX? DEBIAN_FRONTEND?

Will this all look happy and understandable to a data scientist used to their Jupyter Notebook?  Or do we need to do some more work here?
Is this script interchangeable for all use cases?  What parts will need to be changed depending on their needs?

Reviewer 2: I feel we don't need to dump the whole script here. Could condense it a lot. For a start:

```suggestion
#!/bin/bash
# install dependencies
pip install jupyterlab notebook matplotlib ipywidgets tensorflow tensorboard tensorflow_datasets
apt-get install -yq nodejs
npm i ngrok

# start tunnel
export JUPYTER_TOKEN="$(uuidgen)"
npx ngrok authtoken "$NGROK_TOKEN"
(node <<TUNNEL
const fs = require('fs');
const ngrok = require('ngrok');
```

Reviewer: So I guess this needs to be corrected too. ☝️

TPI has finished provisioning the instance:

```yaml
Outputs:

urls = [
  "Jupyter Lab: https://8c62-54-173-120-3.ngrok.io/lab?token=...",
  "Jupyter Notebook: https://8c62-54-173-120-3.ngrok.io/tree?token=...",
  "TensorBoard: https://6d52-54-173-120-3.ngrok.io",
]
```

<admon type="info">

It may take a little while for TPI to provision the instance. If
`terraform refresh` returns `urls = []` as its output, just wait a few minutes
and rerun it.

</admon>

Once we have accomplished everything we want to do in our notebook, we can
terminate the instance with `terraform destroy`. This ensures that we won't have
idle instances racking up our credit card bill. Terraform will download the
files stored there (updated notebooks, save model files, etc.) to the shared
directory on our local machine when terminating the instance.

# Under the hood

"Alright, easy enough, but what is actually happening?"

The major point of interest in the repository is
[`main.tf`](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-jupyter/blob/aws/main.tf).
This file contains the specifications Terraform needs to provision our instance.
Let's take a look at what each part of this configuration does:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```hcl
````

terraform {
  required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative" } }
}
provider "iterative" {}
```

This first part of the configuration simply tells Terraform that we will be
using TPI. We can consider it analogous to a package import in Python.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```hcl
````

resource "iterative_task" "jupyter_server" {

>   spot      = 0             # auto-priced low-cost spot instance
>   timeout   = 24*60*60      # force shutdown after 24h
>   disk_size = 125           # GB
>   machine   = "m+t4"        # m/l/xl (CPU), +k80/t4/v100 (GPU)
>   image     = "nvidia"      # or "ubuntu"
> 
>   # cloud-specific config
>   cloud     = "aws"         # see `git checkout generic` branch for: gcp, az, k8s

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  spot      = 0        # auto-priced low-cost spot instance
  timeout   = 24*60*60 # force shutdown after 24h
  disk_size = 125      # GB
  machine   = "m+t4"   # m/l/xl (CPU), +k80/t4/v100 (GPU)
  image     = "nvidia" # or "ubuntu"

  # cloud-specific config
  cloud     = "aws"    # see `git checkout generic` branch for: gcp, az, k8s
```

from generic types (e.g., `s`/`m`/`l`/`xl`) to specific cloud machine types.
This allows us to generalize these configurations and quickly switch from AWS to
Azure, for example.

Of particular interest here is the `spot = 0`, which tells TPI to provision spot
instances instead of on-demand ones. At the time of writing, the on-demand
hourly rate for this type of instance is $0.526. On the other hand, spot
instances are only $0.15/hour. With little to no effort, TPI allows us to reduce
our cloud costs by 70%!

<admon type="tip">

We could also set an upper limit to the $/hr price we are willing to pay (e.g.,
`spot = 0.12`), and TPI would hold off on provisioning until instances are
available at that price. Disabling spot pricing (`spot = -1`) would make TPI
provision on-demand instances.

</admon>

After specifying the details for the hardware, we configure a few environment
variables for the instance. We also set the local working directory for the
script and the directory to download files from (relative to the working
directory) upon terminating the instance. In this case, both are the `shared`
directory.

```bash

> script = <<-END
> #!/bin/bash
>   set -euo pipefail
>   if test "$GITHUB_USER" != username; then
>     # SSH debugging
>     trap 'echo script error: waiting for debugging over SSH. Run \"terraform destroy\" to stop waiting; sleep inf' ERR
>     mkdir -p "$HOME/.ssh"
>     curl -fsSL "https://github.com/$GITHUB_USER.keys" >> "$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys"
>   fi
>   export CUDACXX=/usr/local/cuda/bin/nvcc
>   export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
>   sed -ri 's#^(APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade).*#\1 "0";#' /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20auto-upgrades
>   dpkg-reconfigure unattended-upgrades
>   # install dependencies
>   pip3 install $${QUIET:+-q} jupyterlab notebook matplotlib ipywidgets tensorflow==2.8.0 tensorboard tensorflow_datasets
>   (curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | bash -) >/dev/null
>   apt-get install -y $${QUIET:+-qq} nodejs
> 
>   # start tunnel
>   export JUPYTER_TOKEN="$(uuidgen)"
>   pushd "$(mktemp -d --suffix dependencies)"
>   npm i ngrok
>   npx ngrok authtoken "$NGROK_TOKEN"
>   (node <<TUNNEL
>   const fs = require('fs');
>   const ngrok = require('ngrok');
>   (async function() {
>     const jupyter = await ngrok.connect(8888);
>     const tensorboard = await ngrok.connect(6006);
>     const br = '\n*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*\n';
>     fs.writeFileSync("log.md", \`\$${br}URL: Jupyter Lab: \$${jupyter}/lab?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: Jupyter Notebook: \$${jupyter}/tree?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: TensorBoard: \$${tensorboard}\$${br}\`);
>   })();
>   TUNNEL
>   ) &
>   while test ! -f log.md; do sleep 1; done
>   cat log.md
>   popd # dependencies
> 
>   # start tensorboard in background
>   env -u JUPYTER_TOKEN -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN tensorboard --logdir . --host 0.0.0.0 --port 6006 &
> 
>   # start Jupyter server in foreground
>   env -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN jupyter lab --allow-root --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --port=8888 --port-retries=0
> END

Reviewer 2: for better syntax highlighting?

```suggestion
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail
if test "$GITHUB_USER" != username; then
  # SSH debugging
  trap 'echo script error: waiting for debugging over SSH. Run \"terraform destroy\" to stop waiting; sleep inf' ERR
  mkdir -p "$HOME/.ssh"
  curl -fsSL "https://github.com/$GITHUB_USER.keys" >> "$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys"
fi
export CUDACXX=/usr/local/cuda/bin/nvcc
export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
sed -ri 's#^(APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade).*#\1 "0";#' /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20auto-upgrades
dpkg-reconfigure unattended-upgrades
# install dependencies
pip3 install $${QUIET:+-q} jupyterlab notebook matplotlib ipywidgets tensorflow==2.8.0 tensorboard tensorflow_datasets
(curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | bash -) >/dev/null
apt-get install -y $${QUIET:+-qq} nodejs

# start tunnel
export JUPYTER_TOKEN="$(uuidgen)"
pushd "$(mktemp -d --suffix dependencies)"
npm i ngrok
npx ngrok authtoken "$NGROK_TOKEN"
(node <<TUNNEL
const fs = require('fs');
const ngrok = require('ngrok');
(async function() {
  const jupyter = await ngrok.connect(8888);
  const tensorboard = await ngrok.connect(6006);
  const br = '\n*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*\n';
  fs.writeFileSync("log.md", \`\$${br}URL: Jupyter Lab: \$${jupyter}/lab?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: Jupyter Notebook: \$${jupyter}/tree?token=$${JUPYTER_TOKEN}\$${br}URL: TensorBoard: \$${tensorboard}\$${br}\`);
})();
TUNNEL
) &
while test ! -f log.md; do sleep 1; done
cat log.md
popd # dependencies

# start tensorboard in background
env -u JUPYTER_TOKEN -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN tensorboard --logdir . --host 0.0.0.0 --port 6006 &

# start Jupyter server in foreground
env -u AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -u AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -u REPO_TOKEN jupyter lab --allow-root --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --port=8888 --port-retries=0
```

provisioned. These are CLI commands as you would run them in your local
terminal. We won't discuss every individual line, but in broad strokes, the
script does the following:

1. Run a few configuration commands
1. Install the dependencies we will be needing
1. Start an ngrok tunnel so that we can easily access the server through our
   browser
1. Launch the Jupyter server

<admon type="info">

This script also launches
[TensorBoard](https://www.tensorflow.org/tensorboard/get_started) to run
alongside Jupyter. It's not the main focus of this blog post, but it might be
helpful!

If you don't want TensorBoard running or want to run some other web service
instead, simply remove or modify
[the relevant line in `main.tf`](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-jupyter/blob/e5fcc8aff74b40e1398ec0904efd73a2c480ff88/main.tf#L78).

</admon>

As you can see, the possibilities for the scripts we can run through TPI are
extensive. We could add commands to clone a Git repository, for example. Or we
could pull data in from a [DVC](https://dvc.org/) remote. This flexibility
allows us to tailor the instance TPI provisions precisely to our needs.

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```hcl
````
